---
section: updates
page: v8-announce
title: v8
order: 3
---

📢  July 2023 (version 8)
===========================

**Release v8.0.0**: Along with a number of bug fixes, styling improvements, and feature additions, this v8 release includes new entry points for each component, as well as high level entry points for our elements, pipes, services, utils, and addons.

**What this means for you**: If you use a number of novo-elements components and features then you can continue importing the root novo-elements module as normal with no changes to your application. If however, you are only using one or a handful of novo-elements features, you now have the option to import them individually, trimming all of the unused novo-elements code from your builds, reducing your app's bundle size and build time, and improving performance.

**How to use these new entry points**: In your module file(s), instead of importing the root novo-elements module like so:
```
import { NovoElementsModule } from 'novo-elements';
```
If you wish you can now only import the components you need, like this:
```
import { NovoAceEditorModule } from 'novo-elements/addons/ace-editor';
```
New top-level entry points include:
```
'novo-elements/addons'
'novo-elements/elements'
'novo-elements/pipes'
'novo-elements/services'
'novo-elements/utils'
```
And each component in the addons and elements libraries have their own entry points as well. For example:
```
'novo-elements/addons/ckeditor'
'novo-elements/elements/tooltip'
```
If you're unsure if a component or library has its own importable entry point, you can verify this by looking for the presence of an `ng-package.json` file in its folder. If it has one, you can import it!

**Beginning of CommonJS library removal**: To further our efforts into making novo-elements as tree-shakable as possible, we've begun the process of removing all of our dependencies on CommonJS libraries. Unfortunately this isn't possible without some breaking changes but we've tried to minimize their impact as much as possible.

- **Dragula**: With this v8 update we have deprecated Dragula and slated it for future removal, with the recommendation that existing users switch over to use the built-in ng `drag-drop` cdk, or a third party solution such as `angular-draggable-droppable`, `ngx-drag-drop`, `ngx-sortablejs`, or `ng2-dragula`.

- **Date-fns**: We have also updated our date-fns dependency from v1 to v2. This will likely require some updates in your application if you're utilizing any of the date-fns calls, most notably `format()` and `parse()`, as the new v2 functions have stricter date typing than we've built into many of our novo-elements date and time components, which generally accept a `DateLike` object which can be a Date object, a string, or a number.

For this we have included a handy new `DateUtil` which effectively wraps these new date-fns v2 functions, while accepting the original DateLike objects and then doing their own type checking or parsing before calling the new date-fns v2 function with the appropriately-typed object. This should make for a fairly straightforward update. For example, if you were utilizing the original v1 date-fns `format()` function, this is what your update would look like:
```
// before
import { format } from 'date-fns';

yourFunction(dateLikeProperty: DateLike): string {
  return format(dateLikeProperty);
}
```
```
// after
import { DateUtil } from 'novo-elements/utils';

yourFunction(dateLikeProperty: DateLike): string {
  return DateUtil.format(dateLikeProperty);
}
```
Here is the official [Upgrade Guide](https://date-fns.org/v2.29.2/docs/Upgrade-Guide) and [Change Log](https://date-fns.org/v2.29.2/docs/Change-Log) from the date-fns docs.

Be sure to see the full list of breaking changes below.


## Upgrading to v8

```
npm install --save novo-elements@8.x.x
npm install --save date-fns@2.30.0
npm install --save rxjs@7.8.1
```


Notable changes [#](https://bullhorn.github.io/novo-elements/docs/#/updates/v8-announce#notable-changes){#notable-changes}
--------------------------------------------------------------------

- tree shakable imports [#1413](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1413)
- updating rxjs to 7.8.1 [#1419](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1419)
- deprecating dragula directive and service [#1420](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1420)
- updating date-fns to v2 [#1421](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1421)
- updating checkbox, checklist, radio, tiles to have consistent disabled styling [#1425](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1425)
- fixing checkbox display bug and adding demo [#1427](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1427)
- moving some extended third party libs out to addons folder [#1430](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1430)
- making data tables emit scroll events through the cdk [#1431](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1431)
- adding keyboard support to places component [#1433](https://github.com/bullhorn/novo-elements/pull/1433)


Breaking changes [#](https://bullhorn.github.io/novo-elements/docs/#/updates/v8-announce#breaking-changes){#breaking-changes}
--------------------------------------------------------------------

- Imports using absolute paths to class files should be changed to import from an entry point instead.
- Most date-fns calls that are not accepting pure Date objects will need to be updated to instead call its respective new DateUtil function.
- Due to stricter subject typing, it will now throw a build error if you are passing in a parameter to a subject which does not match the type you have set. We have had to modify some of our subject types because of this.
- The `queryItems` property on the PlacesListComponent has been renamed to `matches` in order to piggyback on functionality from the newly-extended BasePickerResults component.


**Deprecated**

- Dragula directive and service have been deprecated
